# SJSU-DEV-Linux #

## Dependencies ##
 - **Mono**: C# runtime environment used to run C# applications
    * To Download: http://www.go-mono.com/mono-downloads/download.html
 - **make**: GNU make utility to maintain groups of programs.
 - **GTKTerm**: (RECOMMENDED) A graphical and easy to use GTK+ terminal used to communicate with a serial ports. To use this with the SJOne Board Do the following

# Environment & System Setup #
 1. Git Clone OR Download and Extract Zip of SJSU Dev Linux to some location on your system
    `git clone https://github.com/kammce/SJSU-DEV-Linux.git`
    OR
    [Zip Download Link](https://github.com/kammce/SJSU-DEV-Linux/archive/master.zip)
 2. Install GTKTerm
    `sudo apt-get install gtkterm`
 3. Run the following in a terminal to add your user to the dialout group.
    `sudo adduser $USER dialout`
 4. **Log out** and **log back in** for the dialout group permissions to take effect.
 5. Install **Mono Complete** runtime environment.
    Follow instructions here: [Mono Installer Page](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/getting-started/install/linux/#usage).

# Getting Started #
## Directory Layout ##
 - **/ref_and_datasheets:** References and Datasheets about the SJSU One board, source code and documentation.
 - **Hyperload.exe:** to open the Hyperload SJOne code loader.
 - **/Firmware:** Folder with all of the firmware code in it.
    - **/projects:** includes a demo FreeRTOS and HelloWorld examples.
    - **/compiler:** holds arm-none-eabi compiler programs.
    - **/bin:** holds build and binary files generated by the compiler.
    - **/obj:** holds all of the project object files of the system. Delete the inside of this folder to clean the system.
    - **/lib:** SJOne core library files.
    - **build.sh:** environment setup and runs make file.
    - **Makefile:** Makefile that builds SJOne board hex files.

## Compiling and Loading HelloWorld Project ##
The **HelloWorld** project is a plainly C++ project without FreeRTOS.
 1. From the root of the repository `cd Firmware`
 2. Edit the **build.sh** file and change the variable **PROJECT_NAME** to `PROJECT_NAME=HelloWorld`
 3. To build the project run `./build.sh` in the terminal.
 4. A HEX file `bin/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.hex` and subsequent folders should have been created.
 5. Change directory to the root of the repository and run `mono Hyperload.exe`, to open the Hyperload SJOne code loader.
    1. On the top right side, click the open button and find the `bin/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.hex`
    2. In the lower middle section of the window, click the set button to set the speed (bps) to 50000.
    3. Plug in (or Unplug then plug in) SJOne board into computer. The messages on the right hand side of the window should update.
    4. On the bottom left side of the window, click the PORT pull down menu and select `/tty/devUSB0` (The number at the end can be any number). The code should start loading onto the SJOne board immediatly.
 6. Unplug then plug in SJOne Board.
 7. To run GTKTerm `gtkterm -p /dev/ttyUSB0 -s 38400`
 8. Set *CR LF Auto* to true by going to the `Main Menu > Configuration > CR LF Auto` and click on it.
 9. Press `F8` (Clears RTS signal), then press `F7` (Clears DTR signal) to start SJOne.
 10. You should see the board counting up on the 7-Segment display and in binary on the LEDs.
 11. Done!

## Compiling and Loading FreeRTOS Project ##
Instructions are the same as HelloWorld, but you need to change the **PROJECT_NAME** to `PROJECT_NAME=FreeRTOS` in the **build.sh** file.

## Creating a new Project Getting Started ##
 1. If you want a project with FreeRTOS, then copy that folder and rename it to whatever you want your project name to be. Otherwise, copy the HelloWorld project and rename it.
 2. Change the **PROJECT_NAME** to `PROJECT_NAME=<insert project name>` in the **build.sh** file.
 2. Write your program to the: `projects/<insert project name>/L5_Application/main.cpp`

# Version #
1.1

SJSU DEV Linux brought to you by [Khalil Estell](http://kammce.io) Based on SJDev from [Preet Kang](http://www.socialledge.com/sjsu/index.php?title=Main_Page)
